Daniel Cox
danielpcox.info                 Current Address:
danielpcox@gmail.com            5339 85th Ave. APT 202
240-330-2111                    New Carrollton, MD 20784


Objective
 My objective is to apply my skills and interests where the quality of my work
 truly matters; where error may cost lives or property, and excellence may save
 them. From such a position, I intend to exert myself and build elegant
 software that meets real needs.

Education
 Cornell University, Bachelors of Science Computer Science
 08/2007 - 05/2011
 Cumulative GPA: 3.27

Relevant Coursework
 Analysis of Algorithms, Operating Systems, Introduction to Analysis of
 Algorithms, Systems Programming, Introduction to Natural Language
 Processing, Introduction to Cognitive Science, Foundations of
 Artificial Intelligence, Practicum in AI, Introduction to Database
 Systems, Networks, Discrete Structures, Data Structures and Functional
 Programming, Introduction to Digital Logic Design, Object-Oriented
 Programming and Data Structures, Introduction to Computer Game Design,
 Information Systems and Analysis, Computational Methods for Management
 and Economics, Prove It (mathematical proof course).

Languages, Technologies and Methodologies
 Wolfram Language & Mathematica, Go, Clojure, JavaScript, Scala, Java, Python,
 Ruby, R, MATLAB, C++, C, C#, HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, Perl, OCaml, PHP, and LaTeX.
 React & Redux, Rails, Docker, Git, Subversion, ElasticSearch, Maven,
 Hadoop ecosystem, Spark, Storm, MongoDB, Neo4J, and MySQL.
 Microservice architectural styles, reliable distributed computing and resilience
 engineering, REST, JSON-LD and linked data, Linux server administration and
 related technologies, Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment, and Agile.

Experience
* Decipher Technology Studios, Alexandria, VA
  01/2017 - present Director of Applied Sciences 
  05/2015 - 01/2017 Chief Technology Officer
    - Designed and built resilient applications and distributed systems for
      enterprise and government customers in the microservice architectural style.
    - Provided technological oversight, direction, and counsel to Decipher
      from the leading edge of CS research to meet customer needs and achieve
      business objectives.
    - Cultivated unique and self-propagating company culture through personal
      investment, one-on-one mentoring, and events.
    - Selected, trained, empowered, and unleashed new members of Decipher.
* CACI Int'l (acquired Six3 Systems Nov 2013), Sterling, VA
  02/2012 - 06/2015 Lead Software Engineer
    - Built prototype and production enterprise-scale software for government
      customers
    - Worked with both proven and upcoming web-scale technologies and
      Agile methodologies such as Hadoop, MongoDB, Ruby on Rails, distributed
      computing, test-driven development, RESTful services and Scrum
    - Gave frequent consultations and expositions on above technologies to
      improve group performance
    - Occasionally worked on an emergency timetable to deliver quality software
      quickly after unexpected contingencies reduced manpower and added time-
      pressure to project requirements
* Desiring God, Minneapolis, MN
  Web Application Programming Intern Summer 2008/2009/2010
    - Collaborated with wide range of skill sets to port entire company
      website to Ruby on Rails, now live at desiringgod.org.
    - Contributed to the database architecture and site planning, and
      developed significant portions of the (Ruby on Rails)
      back-end of the site.
* BI Ambulance Association, Bainbridge Island, WA
  06 - 08/2007 Emergency Medical Technician, 
    - Formerly Certified Washington State EMT-B
    - Worked for private ambulance company BIAA caring for and
      transporting patients in emergency situations.
    - Work required well-developed interpersonal, diagnostics and
      treatment skills in dealing with all personality types in
      distress.
* eAcceleration Corp., Poulsbo, WA
  07/2004 - 10/2006 Server Devel. and Reports Programming Intern, 
    - Wrote dashboards and developed reports scripts for company
      databases and migrated old reports scripts to current
      technologies.
      - Evaluated new technologies (such as Ruby on Rails) for potential
      future migration, reported findings to management.
* What’s For Dinner LLC, Poulsbo, WA
  06-09/2006 Web Application Programmer,
    - Contracted alone for four months to design and build the ecommerce
      website of a startup meal-preparation business.
    - Worked closely with the owner at every stage of the process,
      including maintenance for some time after.
